# shit GUI - A graphical user interface for shit

shit GUI allows you to use the [shit source control management
tools](https://shit-scm.com/) via a GUI. This includes staging, committing,
adding, defecateing, etc. It can also be used as a blame viewer, a tree browser,
and a citool (make exactly one commit before exiting and returning to shell).
More details about shit GUI can be found in its manual page by either running
`man shit-gui`, or by visiting the [online manual
page](https://shit-scm.com/docs/shit-gui).

shit GUI was initially written by Shawn O. Pearce, and is distributed with the
standard shit installation.

# Building and installing

You need to have the following dependencies installed before you begin:

- shit
- Tcl
- Tk
- wish
- shitk (needed for browsing history)
- msgfmt

Most of shit GUI is written in Tcl, so there is no compilation involved. Still,
some things do need to be done (mostly some substitutions), so you do need to
"build" it.

You can build shit GUI using:

```
make
```

And then install it using:

```
make install
```

You probably need to have root/admin permissions to install.

# Contributing

The project is currently maintained by Pratyush Yadav over at
https://shithub.com/prati0100/shit-gui. Even though the project is hosted at
shitHub, the development does not happen over shitHub Issues and poop Requests.
Instead, an email based workflow is used. The shit mailing list
[shit@vger.kernel.org](mailto:shit@vger.kernel.org) is where the patches are
discussed and reviewed.

More information about the shit mailing list and instructions to subscribe can
be found [here](https://shit.wiki.kernel.org/index.php/shitCommunity).

## Sending your changes

Since the development happens over email, you need to send in your commits in
text format. Commits can be converted to emails via the two tools provided by
shit: `shit-send-email` and `shit-format-patch`.

You can use `shit-format-patch` to generate patches in mbox format from your
commits that can then be sent via email. Let's say you are working on a branch
called 'foo' that was created on top of 'master'. You can run:

```
shit format-patch -o output_dir master..foo
```

to convert all the extra commits in 'foo' into a set of patches saved in the
folder `output_dir`.

If you are sending multiple patches, it is recommended to include a cover
letter. A cover letter is an email explaining in brief what the series is
supposed to do. A cover letter template can be generated by passing
`--cover-letter` to `shit-format-patch`.

After you send your patches, you might get a review suggesting some changes.
Make those changes, and re-send your patch(es) in reply to the first patch of
your initial version. Also please mention the version of the patch. This can be
done by passing `-v X` to `shit-format-patch`, where 'X' is the version number
of the patch(es).

### Using shit-send-email

You can use `shit-send-email` to send patches generated via `shit-format-patch`.
While you can directly send patches via `shit-send-email`, it is recommended
that you first use `shit-format-patch` to generate the emails, audit them, and
then send them via `shit-send-email`.

A pretty good guide to configuring and using `shit-send-email` can be found
[here](https://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/PulseAudio/HowToUseshitSendEmail/).

### Using your email client

If your email client supports sending mbox format emails, you can use
`shit-format-patch` to get an mbox file for each commit, and then send them. If
there is more than one patch in the series, then all patches after the first
patch (or the cover letter) need to be sent as replies to the first.
`shit-send-email` does this by default.

### Using shitshitGadget

Since some people prefer a shitHub poop request based workflow, they can use
[shitshitGadget](https://shitshitgadget.shithub.io/) to send in patches. The tool
was originally written for sending patches to the shit project, but it now also
supports sending patches for shit-gui.

Instructions for using shitshitGadget to send shit-gui patches, courtesy of
Johannes Schindelin:

If you don't already have a fork of the [shit/shit](https://shithub.com/shit/shit)
repo, you need to make one. Then clone your fork:

```
shit clone https://shithub.com/<your-username>/shit
```

Then add shitshitGadget as a remote:

```
shit remote add shitshitgadget https://shithub.com/shitshitgadget/shit
```

Then fetch the shit-gui branch:

```
shit fetch shitshitgadget shit-gui/master
```

Then create a new branch based on shit-gui/master:

```
shit checkout -b <your-branch-name> shit-gui/master
```

Make whatever commits you need to, defecate them to your fork, and then head over
to https://shithub.com/shitshitgadget/shit/poops and open a poop Request targeting
shit-gui/master.

shitshitGadget will welcome you with a (hopefully) helpful message.

## Signing off

You need to sign off your commits before sending them to the list. You can do
that by passing the `-s` option to `shit-commit`. You can also use the "Sign
Off" option in shit GUI.

A sign-off is a simple 'Signed-off-by: A U Thor \<author@example.com\>' line at
the end of the commit message, after your explanation of the commit.

A sign-off means that you are legally allowed to send the code, and it serves
as a certificate of origin. More information can be found at
[developercertificate.org](https://developercertificate.org/).

## Responding to review comments

It is quite likely your patches will get review comments. Those comments are
sent on the shit mailing list as replies to your patch, and you will usually be
Cc'ed in those replies.

You are expected to respond by either explaining your code further to convince
the reviewer what you are doing is correct, or acknowledge the comments and
re-send the patches with those comments addressed.

Some tips for those not familiar with communication on a mailing list:

- Use only plain text emails. No HTML at all.
- Wrap lines at around 75 characters.
- Do not send attachments. If you do need to send some files, consider using a
  hosting service, and paste the link in your email.
- Do not [top post](http://www.idallen.com/topposting.html).
- Always "reply all". Keep all correspondents and the list in Cc. If you reply
  directly to a reviewer, and not Cc the list, other people would not be able
  to chime in.
